gh-132661: Document t-strings and `templatelib` (#135229)
python/cpython: Doc/library/string.templatelib.rst

Reviewer: Link to this file from https://cpython-previews--135229.org.readthedocs.build/en/135229/library/index.html

:mod:`!string.templatelib` --- Templates and Interpolations for t-strings
=========================================================================

.. module:: string.templatelib
   :synopsis: Support for t-string literals.

**Source code:** :source:`Lib/string/templatelib.py`

--------------

.. seealso::

   :ref:`f-strings` -- Format strings (f-strings)

.. _templatelib-template:

Template
--------

> The :class:`Template` class describes the contents of a template string.

Reviewer: We try to avoid creating too many hyperlinks, see:
https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#links

So we don't need to link this one back to this same section. We can prevent Sphinx from linking like this, but it still applies the other formatting:

```suggestion
The :class:`!Template` class describes the contents of a template string.
```

> The most common way to create a new :class:`Template` instance is to use the t-string literal syntax. This syntax is identical to that of :ref:`f-strings`, except that the string is prefixed with a ``t`` instead of an ``f``. For example, the following code creates a :class:`Template` that can be used to format strings:

Reviewer: We try to avoid creating too many hyperlinks, see:
https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#links

So we don't need to link this repeated mentions. We can prevent Sphinx from linking like this, but it still applies the other formatting:

```suggestion
The most common way to create a new :class:`!Template` instance is to use the t-string literal syntax. This syntax is identical to that of :ref:`f-strings`, except that the string is prefixed with a ``t`` instead of an ``f``. For example, the following code creates a :class:`!Template` that can be used to format strings:
```

Also, please try and wrap at ~80 chars.

https://devguide.python.org/documentation/markup/#use-of-whitespace

   >>> name = "World"
   >>> greeting = t"Hello {name}!"
   >>> type(greeting)
   <class 'string.templatelib.Template'>
   >>> print(list(greeting))
   ['Hello ', Interpolation('World', 'name', None, ''), '!']

> It is also possible to create a :class:`Template` directly, using its constructor. This takes an arbitrary collection of strings and :class:`Interpolation` instances:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible to create a :class:`!Template` directly, using its constructor. This takes an arbitrary collection of strings and :class:`Interpolation` instances:
```

   >>> from string.templatelib import Interpolation, Template
   >>> name = "World"
   >>> greeting = Template("Hello, ", Interpolation(name, "name"), "!")
   >>> print(list(greeting))
   ['Hello, ', Interpolation('World', 'name', None, ''), '!']

.. class:: Template(*args)

   Create a new :class:`Template` object.

   :param args: A mix of strings and :class:`Interpolation` instances in any order.
   :type args: str | Interpolation

>    If two or more consecutive strings are passed, they will be concatenated into a single value in the :attr:`~Template.strings` attribute. For example, the following code creates a :class:`Template` with a single final string:

Reviewer: Similarly, we try and avoid linking back to the same unit.

```suggestion
   Create a new :class:`!Template` object.

   :param args: A mix of strings and :class:`Interpolation` instances in any order.
   :type args: str | Interpolation

   If two or more consecutive strings are passed, they will be concatenated into a single value in the :attr:`~Template.strings` attribute. For example, the following code creates a :class:`!Template` with a single final string:
```

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> print(t"Hello {name}{name}!".strings)
       ('Hello ', '', '!')

   .. attribute:: interpolations
       :type: tuple[Interpolation, ...]

       A tuple of the interpolations in the template.

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> print(t"Hello {name}!".interpolations)
       (Interpolation('World', 'name', None, ''),)

   .. attribute:: values
       :type: tuple[Any, ...]

       A tuple of all interpolated values in the template.

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> print(t"Hello {name}!".values)
       ('World',)

   .. method:: __iter__()

       Iterate over the template, yielding each string and :class:`Interpolation` in order.

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> print(list(t"Hello {name}!"))
       ['Hello ', Interpolation('World', 'name', None, ''), '!']

       Empty strings are *not* included in the iteration:

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> print(list(t"Hello {name}{name}"))
       ['Hello ', Interpolation('World', 'name', None, ''), Interpolation('World', 'name', None, '')]

       :returns: An iterable of all the parts in the template.
       :rtype: typing.Iterator[str | Interpolation]

.. class:: Interpolation(*args)

>    Create a new :class:`Interpolation` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Create a new :class:`!Interpolation` object.
```

   :param value: The evaluated, in-scope result of the interpolation.
   :type value: object

   :param expression: The original *text* of the interpolation's Python :ref:`expressions <expressions>`.
   :type expression: str

   :param conversion: The optional :ref:`conversion <formatstrings>` to be used, one of r, s, and a,.
   :type value: Literal["a", "r", "s"] | None

   :param format_spec: An optional, arbitrary string used as the :ref:`format specification <formatspec>` to present the value.
   :type expression: str = ""

>    The :class:`Interpolation` type represents an expression inside a template string. It is shallow immutable -- its attributes cannot be reassigned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The :class:`!Interpolation` type represents an expression inside a template string. It is shallow immutable -- its attributes cannot be reassigned.
```

:mod:`!string.templatelib` --- Templates and Interpolations for t-strings

> =========================================================================

Reviewer: Use sentence case for headers:

https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#capitalization

```suggestion
:mod:`!string.templatelib` --- Templates and interpolations for t-strings
=========================================================================
```

.. module:: string.templatelib
   :synopsis: Support for t-string literals.

**Source code:** :source:`Lib/string/templatelib.py`

--------------

.. seealso::

   :ref:`T-strings tutorial <tut-t-strings>`
   :ref:`Format strings <f-strings>`

>    :ref:`T-string literal syntax <t-strings>`

Reviewer: <img width="809" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ec1e8fc8-c08a-4400-b6de-7a91accb064b" />

This would be clearer as a bullet list:
```suggestion
   * :ref:`T-strings tutorial <tut-t-strings>`
   * :ref:`Format strings <f-strings>`
   * :ref:`T-string literal syntax <t-strings>`
```

   >>> template = Template("Hello ", "World", "!")
   >>> template.strings
   ('Hello World!',)

   If two or more consecutive interpolations are passed, they will be treated
   as separate interpolations and an empty string will be inserted between them.
   For example, the following code creates a template with a single value in
   the :attr:`~Template.strings` attribute:

   >>> from string.templatelib import Interpolation, Template
   >>> template = Template(Interpolation("World", "name"), Interpolation("!", "punctuation"))
   >>> template.strings
   ('', '', '')

   .. attribute:: strings
       :type: tuple[str, ...]

       A :ref:`tuple <tut-tuples>` of the static strings in the template.

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> t"Hello {name}!".strings
       ('Hello ', '!')

       Empty strings *are* included in the tuple:

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> t"Hello {name}{name}!".strings
       ('Hello ', '', '!')

       The ``strings`` tuple is never empty, and always contains one more
       string than the ``interpolations`` and ``values`` tuples:

       >>> t"".strings
       ('',)
       >>> t"{'cheese'}".strings
       ('', '')
       >>> t"{'cheese'}".values

>        ('cheese',)

Reviewer: Also show the `values` for the first case?
```suggestion
       >>> t"".strings
       ('',)
       >>> t"".values
       ()
       >>> t"{'cheese'}".strings
       ('', '')
       >>> t"{'cheese'}".values
       ('cheese',)
```

   .. attribute:: interpolations
       :type: tuple[Interpolation, ...]

       A tuple of the interpolations in the template.

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> t"Hello {name}!".interpolations
       (Interpolation('World', 'name', None, ''),)

       The ``interpolations`` tuple may be empty and always contains one fewer
       values than the ``strings`` tuple:

       >>> t"Hello!".interpolations
       ()

   .. attribute:: values
       :type: tuple[Any, ...]

       A tuple of all interpolated values in the template.

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> t"Hello {name}!".values
       ('World',)

       The ``values`` tuple is always the same length as the
       ``interpolations`` tuple. It is equivalent to
       ``tuple(i.value for i in template.interpolations)``.

>    .. method:: __iter__()

Reviewer 2: For the dunders, consider showing what the *caller* writes, rather than the implementor. See e.g. [here](https://docs.python.org/dev/library/stdtypes.html#dictionary-view-objects).
```suggestion
   .. describe:: iter(template)
```

Author: Ah, good to know. Thanks.

Author: @encukou Would you do the same for `__add__()`? I guess:

```
.. describe:: template + other
.. describe:: template += other

Text goes here
```

Or something similar?

Reviewer 2: Yes. Combine them to avoid Sphinx treating `template + other` a separate entry with empty docs:
```rst
.. describe:: template + other
              template += other

   Text goes here
```

Author: @encukou  Ah, got it, thanks. Done! Always nice to learn new things about sphinx.

       ['Hello there ', Interpolation('World', 'name', None, ''), '!']

       Concatenation between a :class:`!Template` and a ``str`` is *not* supported.
       This is because it is ambiguous whether the string should be treated as
       a static string or an interpolation. If you want to concatenate a
       :class:`!Template` with a string, you should either wrap the string
       directly in a :class:`!Template` (to treat it as a static string) or use
       an :class:`!Interpolation` (to treat it as dynamic):

       >>> from string.templatelib import Template, Interpolation
       >>> template = t"Hello "
       >>> # Treat "there " as a static string
       >>> template += Template("there ")
       >>> # Treat name as an interpolation
       >>> name = "World"
       >>> template += Template(Interpolation(name, "name"))
       >>> list(template)
       ['Hello there ', Interpolation('World', 'name', None, '')]

.. class:: Interpolation(value, expression="", conversion=None, format_spec="")

   Create a new :class:`!Interpolation` object.

   :param value: The evaluated, in-scope result of the interpolation.
   :type value: object

>    :param expression: The text of a valid Python expression, or an empty string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :param expression: The text of a valid Python expression, or an empty string.
```

   :type expression: str

>    :param conversion: The optional :ref:`conversion <formatstrings>` to be used, one of r, s, and a,.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :param conversion: The optional :ref:`conversion <formatstrings>` to be used, one of r, s, and a.
```

   :type conversion: Literal["a", "r", "s"] | None

   :param format_spec: An optional, arbitrary string used as the :ref:`format specification <formatspec>` to present the value.
   :type format_spec: str

   The :class:`!Interpolation` type represents an expression inside a template string.

   :class:`!Interpolation` instances are shallow immutable: their attributes cannot be
   reassigned.

   .. property:: value

       :returns: The evaluated value of the interpolation.

>        :rtype: object

Reviewer 2: From the point of view of the user, these are simply attributes.
```suggestion
   .. attribute:: value

       The evaluated value of the interpolation.
```
(CPython docs don't currently use `.. property`, and I don't think there's a big reason to start.)

Author: Good catch; fixed throughout the doc.

       >>> t"{1 + 2}".interpolations[0].value
       3

   .. property:: expression

       :returns: The text of a valid Python expression, or an empty string.
       :rtype: str

       The :attr:`~Interpolation.expression` is the original text of the
       interpolation's Python expression, if the interpolation was created
       from a t-string literal. Developers creating interpolations manually
       should either set this to an empty string or choose a suitable valid
       Python expression.

       >>> t"{1 + 2}".interpolations[0].expression
       '1 + 2'

   .. property:: conversion

>        :returns: The conversion to apply to the value, or ``None``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       :returns: The conversion to apply to the value, or ``None``.
```

>        :rtype: Literal["a", "r", "s"] | None

Reviewer: Hmm, maybe some code formatting here rather than plain text?
```suggestion
       :rtype: ``Literal["a", "r", "s"] | None``
```

         the :attr:`!Interpolation.conversion`.

   .. property:: format_spec

       :returns: The format specification to apply to the value.
       :rtype: str

       The :attr:`!Interpolation.format_spec` is an optional, arbitrary string
       used as the format specification to present the value:

       >>> t"{1 + 2:.2f}".interpolations[0].format_spec
       '.2f'

       .. note::

         Unlike f-strings, where format specifications are applied automatically
         via the :func:`format` protocol, the expected behavior with
         t-strings is that code that *processes* the :class:`!Template` will
         decide how to interpret and whether to apply the format specification.
         As a result, :attr:`!Interpolation.format_spec` values in
         :class:`!Template` instances can be arbitrary strings, even those that
         do not necessarily conform to the rules of Python's :func:`format`
         protocol.

   .. property:: __match_args__

       :returns: A tuple of the attributes to use for structural pattern matching.

       The tuple returned is ``('value', 'expression', 'conversion', 'format_spec')``.

>        This allows for :ref:`pattern matching <match>` on :class:`!Interpolation` instances.

Reviewer 2: This kind of dunder could be explained with an usage example, as we do e.g. for [`__aenter__`/`__aexit__` for `asyncio.Lock`](https://docs.python.org/dev/library/asyncio-sync.html#asyncio.Lock)

Author: Took a shot at this, let me know what you think!

:mod:`!string.templatelib` --- Templates and interpolations for t-strings
=========================================================================

.. module:: string.templatelib
   :synopsis: Support for t-string literals.

**Source code:** :source:`Lib/string/templatelib.py`

--------------

.. seealso::

   * :ref:`T-strings tutorial <tut-t-strings>`
   * :ref:`Format strings <f-strings>`
   * :ref:`T-string literal syntax <t-strings>`

.. _template-strings:

Template strings
----------------

.. versionadded:: 3.14

Template strings are a formatting mechanism that allows for deep control over

> how strings are processed. You can create Templates using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
how strings are processed. You can create templates using
```

:ref:`t-string literal syntax <t-strings>`, which is identical to
:ref:`f-string syntax <f-strings>` but uses a ``t`` instead of an ``f``.
While f-strings evaluate to ``str``, t-strings create a :class:`Template`
instance that gives you access to the static and interpolated (in curly braces)
parts of a string *before* they are combined.

See the :ref:`t-strings tutorial <tut-t-strings>` for an introduction.

.. _templatelib-template:

Template
--------

The :class:`!Template` class describes the contents of a template string.

:class:`!Template` instances are shallow immutable: their attributes cannot be
reassigned.

.. class:: Template(*args)

   Create a new :class:`!Template` object.

   :param args: A mix of strings and :class:`Interpolation` instances in any order.
   :type args: str | Interpolation

   The most common way to create a :class:`!Template` instance is to use the
   :ref:`t-string literal syntax <t-strings>`. This syntax is identical to that of
   :ref:`f-strings <f-strings>` except that it uses a ``t`` instead of an ``f``:

>    >>> name = "World"
>    >>> template = t"Hello {name}!"
>    >>> type(template)
>    <class 'string.templatelib.Template'>
>    >>> template.strings
>    ('Hello ', '!')
>    >>> template.values
>    ('World',)

Reviewer 2: This shows `strings` and `values` without saying what they mean.
My style would be to add an explanation before each example. (Most people will skim the text and go to the example, and only go back if something's unclear.

And I think this is the place to explain the “alternating” nature of strings/interpolation. Here I'd aim for “making it click”; the formal specification comes later.

```suggestion
   >>> name = "World"
   >>> template = t"Hello {name}!"
   >>> type(template)
   <class 'string.templatelib.Template'>

   Templates ars stored as sequences of literal :attr:`~Template.strings`
   and dynamic :attr:`~Template.interpolations`.
   A :attr:`~Template.values` attribute holds the interpolation values:

   >>> template.strings
   ('Hello ', '!')
   >>> template.interpolations
   (Interpolation('World', ...),)
   >>> template.values
   ('World',)

   The :attr:`!strings` tuple has one more element than :attr:`!interpolations`
   and :attr:`!values`; the interpolations “belong” between the strings.
   This may be easier to understand when tuples are aligned::

      template.strings:  ('Hello ',          '!')
      template.values:   (          'World',    )
```

Author: Nice; thanks!

   While literal syntax is the most common way to create :class:`!Template`
   instances, it is also possible to create them directly using the constructor:

   >>> from string.templatelib import Interpolation, Template
   >>> name = "World"
   >>> template = Template("Hello, ", Interpolation(name, "name"), "!")
   >>> list(template)
   ['Hello, ', Interpolation('World', 'name', None, ''), '!']

   If two or more consecutive strings are passed, they will be concatenated
   into a single value in the :attr:`~Template.strings` attribute. For example,
   the following code creates a :class:`Template` with a single final string:

   >>> from string.templatelib import Template
   >>> template = Template("Hello ", "World", "!")
   >>> template.strings
   ('Hello World!',)

   If two or more consecutive interpolations are passed, they will be treated
   as separate interpolations and an empty string will be inserted between them.
   For example, the following code creates a template with a single value in

>    the :attr:`~Template.strings` attribute:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   For example, the following code creates a template with empty placeholders
   in the :attr:`~Template.strings` attribute:
```

:mod:`!string.templatelib` --- Support for template string literals
===================================================================

.. module:: string.templatelib
   :synopsis: Support for template string literals.

**Source code:** :source:`Lib/string/templatelib.py`

--------------

.. seealso::

   * :ref:`Format strings <f-strings>`

>    * :ref:`T-string literal syntax <t-strings>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * :ref:`Template string literal (t-string) syntax <t-strings>`
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * :pep:`750`

```

.. _template-strings:

Template strings
----------------

.. versionadded:: 3.14

> Template strings are a formatting mechanism that allows for deep control over
> how strings are processed. You can create templates using
> :ref:`t-string literal syntax <t-strings>`, which is identical to
> :ref:`f-string syntax <f-strings>` but uses a ``t`` instead of an ``f``.
> While f-strings evaluate to ``str``, t-strings create a :class:`Template`
> instance that gives you access to the static and interpolated (in curly braces)
> parts of a string *before* they are combined.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Template strings are a mechanism for custom string processing.
They have the full flexibility of Python's :ref:`f-strings`,
but return a :class:`Template` instance that gives access
to the static and interpolated (in curly braces) parts of a string
*before* they are combined.

To write a t-string, use a ``'t'`` prefix instead of an ``'f'``, like so:

.. code-block:: pycon

   >>> pi = 3.14
   >>> t't-strings are new in Python {pi!s}!'
   Template(
       strings=('t-strings are new in Python ', '!'),
       interpolations=(Interpolation(3.14, 'pi', 's', ''),)
   )
```

.. _templatelib-template:

Template
--------

The :class:`!Template` class describes the contents of a template string.

> :class:`!Template` instances are shallow immutable: their attributes cannot be

Reviewer 4: What is the distinction between immutable and shallow immutable here actually?

Author: Yeah maybe I should remove this. It's not a term of art, but is meant in this sense: 

Template is Immutable like a tuple: only "deeply" immutable if all nested values are themselves immutable; "shallow" otherwise. (In particular, Interpolation.value can be anything.)

Reviewer 4: Ah I see ok. If we use that terminology for tuples, you can keep it. If we don't, you can check if we have a glossary term for it. And if there is none, I think we should just say "Like tuples, template instances are immutable" or just "are immutable". Up to you

Author: Good suggestion. Changed "shallow immutable" -> "immutable"; the glossary describes tuples as "immutable" without qualification.

> The :class:`!Template` class describes the contents of a template string.
> 
> :class:`!Template` instances are immutable: their attributes cannot be
> reassigned.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The :class:`!Template` class describes the contents of a template string.
It is immutable, meaning that attributes of a template cannot be reassigned.
```

.. class:: Template(*args)

   Create a new :class:`!Template` object.

   :param args: A mix of strings and :class:`Interpolation` instances in any order.
   :type args: str | Interpolation

   The most common way to create a :class:`!Template` instance is to use the
   :ref:`t-string literal syntax <t-strings>`. This syntax is identical to that of
   :ref:`f-strings <f-strings>` except that it uses a ``t`` instead of an ``f``:

   >>> name = "World"
   >>> template = t"Hello {name}!"
   >>> type(template)

>    <class 'string.templatelib.Template'>

Reviewer 3: I think this should be moved later; most users won't need to create `Template` objects by calling the class, but will need to know what the class is for and does. Perhaps you could separately document ``Template.__init__()``?

   Templates ars stored as sequences of literal :attr:`~Template.strings`
   and dynamic :attr:`~Template.interpolations`.

>    A :attr:`~Template.values` attribute holds the interpolation values:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   A :attr:`~Template.values` attribute holds the values of the interpolations:
```

   instances, it is also possible to create them directly using the constructor:

   >>> from string.templatelib import Interpolation, Template
   >>> name = "World"
   >>> template = Template("Hello, ", Interpolation(name, "name"), "!")
   >>> list(template)
   ['Hello, ', Interpolation('World', 'name', None, ''), '!']

   If two or more consecutive strings are passed, they will be concatenated
   into a single value in the :attr:`~Template.strings` attribute. For example,
   the following code creates a :class:`Template` with a single final string:

   >>> from string.templatelib import Template
   >>> template = Template("Hello ", "World", "!")
   >>> template.strings
   ('Hello World!',)

   If two or more consecutive interpolations are passed, they will be treated
   as separate interpolations and an empty string will be inserted between them.
   For example, the following code creates a template with empty placeholders
   in the :attr:`~Template.strings` attribute:

   >>> from string.templatelib import Interpolation, Template
   >>> template = Template(Interpolation("World", "name"), Interpolation("!", "punctuation"))
   >>> template.strings

>    ('', '', '')

Reviewer 3: Per the above, this is jumbled up -- this section should be combined with the earlier 'direct construction' section and moved -- perhaps to a ``.. rubric:: <blah>`` subhead or perhaps to ``Template.__init__()``

>    .. attribute:: strings
>        :type: tuple[str, ...]

Reviewer 3: I think everything in the next few sections is over-indented by one space
```suggestion
   .. attribute:: strings
      :type: tuple[str, ...]
```

>        A :ref:`tuple <tut-tuples>` of the static strings in the template.

Reviewer 3: Why link to the tutorial?

```suggestion
       A :class:`tuple` of the static strings in the template.
```

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> t"Hello {name}!".strings
       ('Hello ', '!')

       Empty strings *are* included in the tuple:

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> t"Hello {name}{name}!".strings
       ('Hello ', '', '!')

       The ``strings`` tuple is never empty, and always contains one more
       string than the ``interpolations`` and ``values`` tuples:

       >>> t"".strings
       ('',)
       >>> t"".values
       ()
       >>> t"{'cheese'}".strings
       ('', '')
       >>> t"{'cheese'}".values
       ('cheese',)

>    .. attribute:: interpolations
>        :type: tuple[Interpolation, ...]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   .. attribute:: interpolations
      :type: tuple[Interpolation, ...]
```

       A tuple of the interpolations in the template.

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> t"Hello {name}!".interpolations
       (Interpolation('World', 'name', None, ''),)

       The ``interpolations`` tuple may be empty and always contains one fewer
       values than the ``strings`` tuple:

       >>> t"Hello!".interpolations
       ()

>    .. attribute:: values
>        :type: tuple[Any, ...]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   .. attribute:: values
      :type: tuple[Any, ...]
```

>        A tuple of all interpolated values in the template.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       A tuple of the values of every interpolation in the template.
```

       >>> name = "World"
       >>> t"Hello {name}!".values
       ('World',)

>        The ``values`` tuple is always the same length as the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
       The ``values`` tuple has always the same length as the
```

       ``interpolations`` tuple. It is equivalent to
       ``tuple(i.value for i in template.interpolations)``.

   .. describe:: iter(template)

       Iterate over the template, yielding each string and

>        :class:`Interpolation` in order.

Reviewer 3: "in order" here I think could do with more exposition, or reference to the "proper" order of a `Template`

       directly in a :class:`!Template` (to treat it as a static string) or use
       an :class:`!Interpolation` (to treat it as dynamic):

       >>> from string.templatelib import Template, Interpolation
       >>> template = t"Hello "
       >>> # Treat "there " as a static string
       >>> template += Template("there ")
       >>> # Treat name as an interpolation
       >>> name = "World"
       >>> template += Template(Interpolation(name, "name"))
       >>> list(template)
       ['Hello there ', Interpolation('World', 'name', None, '')]

.. class:: Interpolation(value, expression="", conversion=None, format_spec="")

   Create a new :class:`!Interpolation` object.

   :param value: The evaluated, in-scope result of the interpolation.
   :type value: object

   :param expression: The text of a valid Python expression, or an empty string.
   :type expression: str

   :param conversion: The optional :ref:`conversion <formatstrings>` to be used, one of r, s, and a.
   :type conversion: ``Literal["a", "r", "s"] | None``

   :param format_spec: An optional, arbitrary string used as the :ref:`format specification <formatspec>` to present the value.

>    :type format_spec: str

Reviewer 3: As with `Template`, I think direct construction should be moved to ``Interpolation.__init__()``

   The :class:`!Interpolation` type represents an expression inside a template string.

   :class:`!Interpolation` instances are shallow immutable: their attributes cannot be
   reassigned.

   .. attribute:: value

       :returns: The evaluated value of the interpolation.

>        :rtype: object

Reviewer 4: If it's an attribute, use `:type:` role instead of rtype (https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/domains/python.html#directive-py-attribute).

Author: Good to know; thanks. Fixed.

       >>> t"{1 + 2}".interpolations[0].value
       3

   .. attribute:: expression

>        :returns: The text of a valid Python expression, or an empty string.

Reviewer 4: No need for `:returns:` You can write the attribute directive body the same way you did for Template.interpolations for instance.

       :rtype: str

>        The :attr:`~Interpolation.expression` is the original text of the

Reviewer 4: This will be rendered as expression + link which is different from the description in conversion.

Author: Fixed; thanks.

       interpolation's Python expression, if the interpolation was created
       from a t-string literal. Developers creating interpolations manually
       should either set this to an empty string or choose a suitable valid
       Python expression.

       >>> t"{1 + 2}".interpolations[0].expression
       '1 + 2'

   .. attribute:: conversion

       :returns: The conversion to apply to the value, or ``None``.
       :rtype: ``Literal["a", "r", "s"] | None``

>        The :attr:`!Interpolation.conversion` is the optional conversion to apply

Reviewer 4: This will be rendered as Interpolation.conversion, so I suggest using double backquotes instead.

Author: Modified the examples in the attribute descriptions to just use double backquotes.

       used as the format specification to present the value:

       >>> t"{1 + 2:.2f}".interpolations[0].format_spec
       '.2f'

       .. note::

         Unlike f-strings, where format specifications are applied automatically
         via the :func:`format` protocol, the expected behavior with
         t-strings is that code that *processes* the :class:`!Template` will
         decide how to interpret and whether to apply the format specification.
         As a result, :attr:`!Interpolation.format_spec` values in
         :class:`!Template` instances can be arbitrary strings, even those that
         do not necessarily conform to the rules of Python's :func:`format`
         protocol.

   Interpolations support pattern matching, allowing you to match against
   their attributes with the :ref:`match statement <match>`:

   >>> from string.templatelib import Interpolation
   >>> interpolation = Interpolation(3.0, "1 + 2", None, ".2f")
   >>> match interpolation:
   ...     case Interpolation(value, expression, conversion, format_spec):
   ...         print(value, expression, conversion, format_spec)
   ...

>    3.0 1 + 2 None .2f

Reviewer 3: This should be moved up into the main body description of ``Interpolation``

Helper functions
----------------

.. function:: convert(obj, /, conversion)

   Applies formatted string literal :ref:`conversion <formatstrings-conversion>`
   semantics to the given object *obj*.
   This is frequently useful for custom template string processing logic.

   Three conversion flags are currently supported:

>    * ``'s'`` which calls :func:`str` on the value,
>    * ``'r'`` which calls :func:`repr`, and
>    * ``'a'`` which calls :func:`ascii`.

Reviewer 3: Added the exclamation-mark forms for people doing a `Ctrl-F` search
```suggestion
   * ``'s'`` which calls :func:`str` on the value (like ``!s``),
   * ``'r'`` which calls :func:`repr` (like ``!r``), and
   * ``'a'`` which calls :func:`ascii` (like ``!a``).
```

   ...         print(value, expression, conversion, format_spec)
   ...
   3.0 1 + 2 None .2f

Helper functions
----------------

.. function:: convert(obj, /, conversion)

   Applies formatted string literal :ref:`conversion <formatstrings-conversion>`
   semantics to the given object *obj*.
   This is frequently useful for custom template string processing logic.

   Three conversion flags are currently supported:

>    * ``'!s'`` which calls :func:`str` on the value,
>    * ``'!r'`` which calls :func:`repr`, and
>    * ``'!a'`` which calls :func:`ascii`.

Reviewer 5: IIUC, the exclamation mark should not be part of `conversion` (as it is not in `Interpolation.conversion`), so it may be misleading to include it here:

```suggestion
   * ``'s'`` which calls :func:`str` on the value,
   * ``'r'`` which calls :func:`repr`, and
   * ``'a'`` which calls :func:`ascii`.
```
